{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red46\green117\blue182;\red89\green89\blue89;}
\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080
\f0\fs21
\pard\sa0\fs48\cf1\b Dhir Saxena\cf0\b0\par
\pard\sb40\sa20\fs26\b Head of AI Engineering  |  AI Architecture \& Governance Leader\b0\par
\pard\sa120\fs20\cf2 dhirsaxena@gmail.com  |  07950 741519  |  London\cf0\par
\pard\sb40\sa120\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf1\par
\pard\sb120\sa60\fs26\cf1\b PROFILE\cf0\b0\par
\pard\sa120\fs21 AI engineering leader with 20+ years in enterprise data and architecture and 5+ years leading AI/ML delivery, who builds and directs multi-team organisations of architects and developers that turn AI governance into working, enforceable engineering. Sets the AI architecture strategy and the tooling standards behind it, partners with heads of department, risk and governance functions to assess feasibility and design the roll-out of each standard, and is accountable for delivery across regulated enterprises including Phoenix Life, Jaguar Land Rover, Waitrose and Essity. Operating as an independent consulting architect since 2018, currently delivering through Tata Consultancy Services.\par
\pard\sb160\sa60\fs26\cf1\b LEADERSHIP COMPETENCIES\cf0\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Engineering leadership \& team management\b0 \endash  Lead cross-functional teams of architects and developers (10-20+) across multiple AI workstreams \endash  model performance, operational excellence, security and responsible AI \endash  and own the shared platform utilities (central SDKs, guardrail and evaluation libraries) those teams build and reuse.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b AI strategy \& operating model\b0 \endash  Define the enterprise AI architecture strategy and the catalogue of enforceable principles that operationalises it; design each principle's roll-out plan, Architecture Review Board (ARB) review criteria, and adoption path from foundational to scaled.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Governance \& stakeholder engagement\b0 \endash  Partner with heads of department, risk, security and governance functions to assess feasibility, align to regulatory obligation (FCA, Responsible AI), and convert guidance into mechanical, auditable sign-off.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Platform \& tooling strategy\b0 \endash  Own selection and standardisation of the AI engineering stack \endash  agent frameworks, guardrails, MLOps, observability and CI gating \endash  and the build-vs-buy and centralise-vs-local decisions behind it.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Technical foundation\b0 \endash  Hands-on across agentic AI (LangGraph, CrewAI), guardrail architectures (input, output and retrieval screening plus pre-action authorisation), RAG, and MLOps and model monitoring.\par
\pard\sb160\sa60\fs26\cf1\b PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE\cf0\b0\par
\pard\tqr\tx9740\sb80\sa20\fs22\cf1\b Lead AI Architect  |  Tata Consultancy Services, London\tab\cf0\b0\i October 2023 \endash  Present\i0\par
\pard\sb60\sa20\fs21\b TCS AI Competency Centre \endash  Enterprise AI Architecture Standards \& Principles\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Lead an enterprise AI architecture standards programme \endash  a catalogue of concrete, enforceable principles mapped to the AWS Well-Architected Framework (GenAI, ML and Responsible AI lenses) \endash  giving delivery teams and review boards a shared, auditable definition of production-ready AI.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Partner with COE stakeholders, department heads and governance teams to assess the feasibility of each standard, agree ownership (central platform vs project team), and design its roll-out and ARB review criteria.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Direct the architecture of the shared utilities that enforce the standards \endash  central model and prompt SDKs, guardrail and action-authorisation libraries, evaluation harnesses \endash  so principles hold mechanically at build time rather than by manual review.\par
\pard\sb80\sa20\fs21\b Phoenix Life \endash  Agentic AI Platform for Annual Policy Statements (FCA-regulated)\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Set the architecture and led delivery of a large-scale LangGraph agentic pipeline processing 5M+ policyholder records, owning auditability, controllability and regulatory defensibility under FCA requirements.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Established the governance operating model \endash  CI-gated, production-realistic test harnesses, prompt versioning and ARB-auditable evidence artefacts \endash  turning regulatory guidance into automated sign-off at PR and deployment time.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Directed a multi-layered production guardrail system performing PII redaction, output validation and pre-action authorisation across the agentic pipeline.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Oversaw a shadow-testing framework validating new agent outputs against the legacy batch system at full scale, eliminating silent-regression risk and de-risking cutover.\par
\pard\sb80\sa20\fs21\b Phoenix Life \endash  Enterprise RAG for Internal Policy Portal\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Led delivery of a production RAG system for customer-service agents over a heterogeneous regulated corpus, and set the ingestion-safeguard standard \endash  a mandatory pre-index PII scanning gate that structurally prevented sensitive data entering the vector store.\par
\pard\sb80\sa20\fs21\b Jaguar Land Rover \endash  MLOps Platform\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Directed an end-to-end MLflow deployment platform (packaging, versioning, CI/CD promotion, canary deployment and rollback) and a multi-layered monitoring stack that detected feature drift weeks ahead of performance degradation, enabling proactive retraining.\par
\pard\tqr\tx9740\sb120\sa20\fs22\cf1\b Lead Architect \endash  Data \& AI  |  Essity, Gothenburg, Sweden\tab\cf0\b0\i January 2021 \endash  September 2023\i0\par
\pard\sb60\sa20\fs21\b RAG-Based Semantic Product Search \endash  15+ Global Markets\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Owned the architecture and AI governance framework for a semantic product-search platform serving channel partners and field sales across 15+ markets, using LangChain orchestration and a hybrid vector store for high-precision retrieval.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Defined chunking governance as version-controlled schema migrations to eliminate silent configuration drift, and set enterprise standards for multilingual corpus handling and retrieval-quality regression testing across markets.\par
\pard\tqr\tx9740\sb120\sa20\fs22\cf1\b Senior Data Platform Architect  |  Tata Consultancy Services, London\tab\cf0\b0\i January 2018 \endash  November 2020\i0\par
\pard\sb60\sa20\fs21\b Jaguar Land Rover \endash  Single View CRM, 10 European Markets\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab Led the data platform architecture unifying customer, vehicle, sales and service data across 10 European markets (Data Vault 2.0 on Redshift/Athena, golden-record matching, Glue PySpark, Step Functions), establishing the conformed model and the BI presentation layer.\par
\pard\sb160\sa60\fs26\cf1\b EARLIER CAREER\cf0\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Co-Founder \& Chief Data Architect, Syptus, London (2015-2017)\b0 \endash  co-founded a data-analytics SaaS startup and led platform architecture for a cloud-hosted content-analytics platform.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Head of Data \& Analytics, IG Group, London (2011-2015)\b0 \endash  led the data and analytics function; delivered an enterprise connector ecosystem for 12+ marketing and CRM platforms, cutting onboarding from 6 weeks to under 5 days.\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa30\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Managing Consultant, IBM Interactive, London (2007-2011)\b0 \endash  delivery across Capital One, Deutsche Bank and Vodafone.\par
\pard\sb160\sa60\fs26\cf1\b TECHNICAL \& PLATFORM SKILLS\cf0\b0\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Agentic \& GenAI\b0 \endash  LangGraph, CrewAI, guardrail architectures, RAG, prompt and context governance\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b MLOps \& observability\b0 \endash  SageMaker Pipelines and Model Monitor, MLflow, drift detection, CloudWatch\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Platform \& cloud\b0 \endash  AWS (Glue, Step Functions, Kinesis, EventBridge, Athena, Redshift), Databricks, PGVector\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Engineering \& CI/CD\b0 \endash  Python, FastAPI, GitHub Actions, Docker, Terraform, AWS CodePipeline\par
\pard\fi-340\li700\sb20\sa20\fs21\cf0\bullet\tab\b Governance\b0 \endash  AWS Well-Architected (GenAI / ML / Responsible AI lenses), ARB design, FCA-regulated delivery\par
\pard\sb160\sa60\fs26\cf1\b STATUS\cf0\b0\par
\pard\sa20\fs21 British  |  Available at 2 weeks' notice\par
}
